# Overview
Dflow is a Python development framework for concurrent learning applications based on [Argo Workflows](https://argoproj.github.io/). Dflow's users are usually ML application developers, e.g. [DPGEN2 project](https://github.com/wanghan-iapcm/dpgen2) is developed in the framework of dflow. Argo is an open-source Kubernetes-native workflow engine. While argo defines workflows via yaml configurations, dflow offers more user-friendly functional programming interfaces.
## Architecture
The dflow consists of a **common layer** and a **interface layer**.  Interface layer takes various OP templates from users, usually in the form of python classes, and transforms them into base OP templates that common layer can handle. Common layer is an extension over argo client which provides functionalities such as file processing, workflow submission and management, etc.
## Common layer
### OP template
OP template describes a sort of operation which takes some parameters and artifacts as input and gives some parameters and artifacts as output. The most common OP template is the container OP template whose operation is specified by container image and commands to be executed in the container. Currently two types of container OP templates are supported. Shell OP template defines an operation by a shell script and Python script OP template defines an operation by a Python script.
- Input parameters: basically a dictionary mapping from parameter name to its properties. The value of the input parameter is optional for the OP template, if provided, it will be regarded as the default value which can be overrided at run time.
- Input artifacts: basically a dictionary mapping from artifact name to its properties. For the container OP template, path where the input artifact is placed in the container is required to be specified.
- Output parameters: basically a dictionary mapping from parameter name to its properties. The source where its value comes from should be specified. For the container OP template, the value may be from a certain file generated in the container (value_from_path).
- Output artifacts: basically a dictionary mapping from artifact name to its properties. For the container OP template, path where the output artifact will be generated in the container is required to be specified.
### Workflow
`Step` and `Steps` are central blocks for building a workflow. A `Step` is the result of instantiating a OP template. When a `Step` is intialized, values of all input parameters and sources of all input artifacts defined in the OP template must be clear. `Steps` is a sequential array of array of concurrent `Step`'s. A simple example goes like [[s00, s01],  [s10, s11, s12]], where inner array represent concurrent tasks while outer array is sequential. A `Workflow` contains a `Steps` as entrypoint for default. Adding a `Step` to a `Workflow` is equivalent to adding the `Step` to the `Steps` of the `Workflow`.
It should be noticed that `Steps` itself is a subclass of OPTemplate and could be used as the template of a higher level `Step`. By virtue of this feature, one can construct complex workflows of nested structure. One is also allowed to recursively use a `Steps` as the template of a building block inside itself to achieve dynamic loop.
